NBIoT
Question: Which of the following organizations is responsible for the development of NB-IoT standards?
Answer: 3GPP


Question: Which network element is responsible for interfacing NIDD with IoT application servers in NB-IoT?
Answer: SCEF (Service Capability Exposure Function)


Question:  NB-IoT is introduced in which of the following standards?
Answer: LTE – Advanced Pro


Question: Which of the following is NOT a mode of operations for NB-IoT?
Answer: Out-Band


Question: Which factors determine the bit rate of a communication system?
Answer: The modulation scheme and the symbol rate


Question: Which of the following features of NB-IoT reduces power consumption by allowing devices to "sleep" for extended periods?        
Answer: PSM (Power Saving Mode)


Question: Which of the following is a key advantage of NB-IoT over traditional cellular networks?
Answer: Low Power Consumption


Question: Why is HTTP not always suitable for IoT devices?
Answer: It has high overhead and power consumption


Question: Why is NIDD particularly suitable for NB-IoT?
Answer: It eliminates IP overhead, optimizing for small data packets


Question: Which of the following is not a feature of NB-IoT?
Answer: High Receiver Sensitivity


Question: Which of the following IoT applications is best suited for NB-IoT? Choose the best one.
Answer: Smart metering in rural areas


Question: Which of the following codes, used in CDMA, are considered orthogonal codes?
Answer: <0,1,0,1> and <1,0,1,0>


Question: Assume that you are a network operator, and you chose to implement TDMA as the multiple access scheme. How much bandwidth is required to support 10 users if each user requires a bandwidth equal to 400kHz. Assume that the bandwidth of the guard band on each side of the spectrum must be equal to 50kHz.
Answer: 400kHz + (2*50kHz) = 500kHz


Question: Assume that you are a network operator, and you are allocated a frequency spectrum of bandwidth equal to 1000kHz for carrying out 4G cellular operation. How many subcarriers (maximum) can you support given the above bandwidth. Assume that the bandwidth of the guard band on each side of the spectrum must be equal to 50kHz.
Answer: Number of subcarriers = Available bandwidth / Subcarrier bandwidth​
[1000-(50*2)]/15 = 60


Question: Assume that you are a network operator, and you are allocated a frequency spectrum of bandwidth equal to 1000kHz for carrying out cellular operation. You chose to implement FDMA as the multiple access scheme. How many users can you support if each user requires a bandwidth equal to 40kHz. Assume that the bandwidth of the guard band on each side of the spectrum must be equal to 50kHz.
Answer: [1000-(2*50)]/40 = 22.5 (22)


Question: Assume that the subcarrier band size has been increased from 15kHz to 25kHz. Using this information, calculate how much would be the bandwidth of one physical resource block. Select which of the following is the answer:
Answer: 
Bandwidth of One PRB=Subcarrier Band Size×Number of Subcarriers
Bandwidth of One PRB=25kHz×12=300kHz


Question: Assume NB-IoT scenario and calculate the minimum transmit power for a link budget equal to 170dB and receiver sensitivity equal to -150dBm. Enter the numerical number only in dBm.
Answer: 
Transmit Power = Receiver Sensitivity + Link Budget
Transmit Power = 170 - 150 = 20


Question: A network manager chose to use QPSK (Quadrature Phase Shift Keying) as the modulation scheme for the NB-IoT network. Given this scenario, select how many bits can an NB-IoT transmit at any given point of time. (Select only the possible option) 
Answer: None of the above


Question: Consider the following two statements and select the appropriate option below:
Statement A: NB-IoT devices are not suitable for indoor placement due to insufficient coverage, making it challenging to support devices located inside buildings.
Statement B: NB-IoT devices rely on coverage provided by LTE and 5G-NR cellular technologies.
Answer: Statement B is true, but Statement A is false.










Question: Consider the following two statements and select the appropriate option below:
Statement A: NB-IoT requires the device to connect to an operator network via licensed or unlicensed spectrum. The spectrum in which the devices are transmitting information does not matter if the eNodeB (i.e., the 4G cellular tower) is aware of the same.
Statement B: Unlike normal LTE devices, NB-IoT devices need not listen to paging regularly. In fact, it is okay even if these devices do not listen to paging for a whole day as well.
Answer: Both Statements are false.


Question: Consider the following two statements and select the appropriate option below:
Statement A: Any mobile connected to a 4G network can move while retaining an active connection.
Statement B: As NB-IoT devices rely on coverage provided by 4G, they can also move while maintaining an active connection.
Answer: Statement A is true, but Statement B is false.
________________
Introduction to IoT Comms


Question: IoT refers to ... (select the best answer)
Answer: All of them. (Interconnections of devices in a network, An ecosystem of devices, accessible through internet, Exchange of data between devices in a network)


Question: Devices in IoT support ... (select the best answer)
Answer: All of them (Actuating, Data collection, Sensing)


Question: Which choice represents the ultimate aim for IoT.
Answer: To transform raw data into insights


Question: The various factors (range, power, data rate, scalability, security and cost) have the same level of importance in any IoT solution.
Answer: False


Question: Which of the following is NOT a component in an IoT device.
Answer: Power Supply


Question: Which of the following allows a bunch of heterogeneous systems to communicate and interact with each other?  
Answer: Middleware


Question: Which of the following supports the longest range?
Answer: LoRa


Question: Match the following terms to the most appropriate description.
Answer:
Pervasive/Ubiquitous - focus on anytime/anywhere computing (1)
Real-time Systems - focus on time constraints (2)
Embedded Systems - not necessarily connected (3)
Cyber-Physical Systems - focus on interaction between physical and cyber systems (4)


Question: Arrange the various layers for the IoT Reference Model, assuming the following sequence:
7. Collaboration & Processes
6. Application
Answer:
5. Data Abstraction
4. Data Accumulation
3. Edge Computing
2. Connectivity
1. Physical Devices & Controller


Question: Which of the following technology uses 2.4Ghz frequency?
Answer: WiFi, Wireless HART, Bluetooth/BLE, ZigBee, LoRa
WiFi & HaLow
Question: The "Data Unit" get larger as it goes _____ the OSI stack.
Answer: down


Question: All 802.11 devices are compatible with each other.
Answer: False


Question: How many overlapping WiFi channels are there for 2.4Ghz Band?
Answer: 11


Question: WiFi HaLow is also known as?
Answer: 802.11ah


Question: Which standard does HaLow follow for wireless communication?
Answer: 802.11ah


Question: What is the operating frequency of HaLow?
Answer: Sub-1 Ghz


Question: What is the typical range of HaLow compared to traditional Wi-Fi?
Answer: Longer range


Question: What is the main advantages of HaLow over traditional Wi-Fi technologies?
Answer: Greater range, Lower power consumption


Question: Which if the following channel access technique is used in HaLow?
Answer: Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance


Question: Using which one of the following parameters will the modulation and coding scheme be decided?
Answer: Signal to Noise Ratio


Question: Which of the following is included in the beacon to notify stations about the buffered frames?
Answer: Traffic Indication Map


Question: How does HaLow address the shortage of Duration/ID field that is required for Network Allocation Vector?
Answer: HaLow uses a mechanism called Response Indication Deferral.


Question: Which of the following are advantages of using Relays in HaLow? (select the correct answers)
Answer: Relays improve reliability of data transmission., Relays enable the devices to transmit at high data rate.






Question: Which of the frames are transmitted by the Access Point when a node is attempting to join a Basic Service Set using active scanning? (You can select more than one)
Answer: Probe Response Frame, Association Response Frame


Question: Which of the following frames are transmitted by a node when it is attempting to join a Basic Service Set using passive scanning? (You can select more than one)
Answer: Association Request Frame


Question: Select the true statements for WiFi
Answer: Its frequency ranges from 2.4Ghz to 2.5Ghz, The 5Ghz Band has a 150Mhz bandwidth


Question: Which of the following frames use the Null Data Packet (NDP) MAC frame structure in 802.11ah? (You can select more than one)
Answer: ACK, CTS, RTS


Question: Which of the following power management modes are available for stations in 802.11 networks? (You can choose more than one answer)
Answer: Active Mode, Power Save Mode


Question: Which of the following packets help in solving the hidden node problem in 802.11 networks? (You can select more than one answer)
Answer: Request To Send Packet, Clear To Send Packet


Question: Select the standards that are typically common across IEEE 802.
Answer: 802.1 Bridging, 802.2 Logical Link Control


Question: Consider the following two statements and select the appropriate option below:
Statement A: Centralized and Distributed Authentication Control are introduced in HaLow to overcome collisions between the devices in the network.
Statement B: HaLow introduced mechanisms to limit the set of devices accessing the channel and to spread their access attempts over a long period of time.
Answer: Statement B is true, but Statement A is false.

________________
Bluetooth


Question: Which of the following supports low energy radio operation.        
Answer: BLE


Question: Which version of Bluetooth introduced BLE?
Answer: Bluetooth 4.0


Question: What does BLE stand for?
Answer: Bluetooth Low Energy


Question: Which feature distinguishes BLE from Classic Bluetooth?
Answer: Lower energy consumption.


Question: BLE is particularly designed for:
Answer: Short-range, low-power communication.


Question: What is the maximum data rate of latest BLE?
Answer: 2 Mbps


Question: What is the range typically achievable with BLE technology?
Answer: Up to 100 meters


Question: Which frequency band does BLE operate in?
Answer: 2.4 GHz


Question: In BLE terminology, what is a 'GATT'?
Answer: Generic Attribute Profile


Question: In BLE, what is the role of a 'Central' device?
Answer: It connects to and controls peripheral devices.


Question: What is a characteristic of BLE 'Advertising' mode?
Answer: Device discovery and connection establishment.


Question: What does 'Pairing' in BLE involve?
Answer: Exchanging security keys for secure communication.


Question: BLE supports which kind of communication topology?
Answer: Star, Mesh, Point-to-Point


Question: Which of the following Topology does Bluetooth 4.0 support?
Answer: Star, Scatter Net


Question: Which of the following scheme is used by Bluetooth?
Answer: Frequency hopping TDD scheme
Question: Bluetooth is designed for short broadcast. There are forty 2-Mhz channels. How many of these channels are reserved for advertising? (enter numerical number)
Answer: 3


Question: If the number of carrier frequencies is equal to 25, how many outputs bits must be generated by the PRN generator? (Assume FHSS)
Answer: 5


Question: Assume Bob can send 300 bits in one slot while using Bluetooth. How many slots does it take to send 1200 bits?
Answer: 5




Question: Assume Bob can send 300 bits in one slot while using Bluetooth. How many slots does it take to send 600 bits?
Answer: 3




Question: If the bandwidth of the spread spectrum signal is 180MHz and the signal bandwidth is 15MHz. How many carrier frequencies are required for generating the spread spectrum signal?
Answer: 180MHz / 16MHz = 12


Question: If the hopping time, assuming FHSS, is equal to 500μs, how many times would the signal hopped in one second? (you can select more than one option)        
Answer: 1500, 1750, 2000








________________


ZigBee and ZWave


Question: What is the purpose of Zigbee communication?
Answer: All of the above (Home Automation, Healthcare, Industrial Control)


Question: What is the role of Zigbee end devices in the Zigbee network?
Answer: Communicates with other nodes


Question: What is the role of Zigbee coordinator in the Zigbee network?        
Answer: Both (Controls the network and Communicates with other nodes)


Question: What is the role of Zigbee routers in the Zigbee network?
Answer: Acts as a relay between other nodes


Question: Which if the following do not contribute in routing in a ZigBee network?
Answer: ZigBee End Device


Question: Zigbee have a transport layer.
Answer: False


Question: Which network topology is not supported by ZigBee?        
Answer: Bus


Question: Which of the following is not a feature of Zigbee? (choose the best one)
Answer: Large Bandwidth


Question: Z-Wave is an implementation of a ZigBee protocol.
Answer: False


Question: Which frequency does Z-Wave operate on?        
Answer: 868 Mhz


Question: Which of the following is needed to be a "ZigBee Compliant Product"
Answer: ZigBee Stack, IEEE 802.15.4, Application Profile






________________


LoRa & LoRaWAN
Question: Which Class of LoRaWAN is best suited for applications requiring minimal latency?
Answer: Class C


Question: In LoRa, which class does the following end device fall under?
Battery powered actuators. Energy efficient with latency controlled downlink. Slotted 
communication synchronized with a beacon.
Answer:  B


Question: What does LoRaWAN stand for?
Answer: Long Range Wide Area Network


Question: LoRa's spreading factor affects which of the following?
Answer: Data rate and range


Question: What is the main drawback of using LoRa for IoT applications?
Answer: Limited data rate


Question: LoRa is primarily used for?
Answer: Long-range, low-power communication


Question: LoRaWAN's network server is responsible for:
Answer: Processing and forwarding data to application servers


Question: What is the main function of the Device EUI in LoRaWAN?
Answer: To identify the device uniquely on the network


Question: LoRaWAN modulation technique sits at which OSI layer?
Answer: Physical


Question: In LoRa, what does increasing the spreading factor (SF) do to the signal's range and data rate?
Answer: Increases range and decreases data rate


Question: Link Budget ...
Question 2 options:
* refers to a connection between two entities.
* refers to the amount of loss that a data link (transmitter to receiver) should have.
* refers to the amount of loss that a data link (transmitter to receiver) can tolerate in order to operate properly.
* refers to the difference between the minimum expected power received at the receiver's end, and the receiver's sensitivity.
Answer: refers to the amount of loss that a data link (transmitter to receiver) can tolerate in order to operate properly.


Question: Which Sub-GHz ISM frequency does LoRa operate in Singapore?
Answer: 923 MHz


Question: What type of modulation is used in LoRa?
Answer: Chirp Spread Spectrum (CSS)


Question: What is the main advantages of using LoRa for IoT applications?
Answer:  Long range


Question: What does LoRa stand for?
Answer: Long Range


Question: Which class of LoRaWAN is designed for bidirectional end-devices with scheduled receive slots?
Answer: Class B




Question: LoRa modulation a variation of ....
Answer: Chirp Spread Spectrum




________________


AIoT & Cloud


Q1: Which of the following is not a benefit of AIoT? (pick the best answer) 
1. Improved energy efficiency 
2. Increased productivity 
3. Enhanced security 
4. Decreased complexity ✅


Q2: Which of the following is a benefit of cloud computing? 
1. Limited scalability 
2. Higher upfront costs 
3. Limited data accessibility 
4. Lower maintenance costs ✅


Q3: Which of the following is not a potential use case for AIoT in industrial automation? 
1. Quality control 
2. Predictive maintenance 
3. Inventory management 
4. Employee time tracking ✅


Q4: What is IaaS 
1. Internet as a Service 
2. Intelligence as a Service 
3. Infrastructure as a Service ✅
4. Interaction as a Service 


Q5: Match the Edge Computing Platforms to how they perform inferencing on the device. 
_______ GPU-centric 
_______ CPU-centric 


Options: 
1. Raspberry Pi 
2. NVidia Jetson


ANS: NVidia Jetson GPU-centric, Raspberry Pi CPU-centric


________________


Q6: What is cloud computing? 
1. A way to physically connect multiple computers together 
2. A way to protect data from unauthorised access 
3. A way to store data on your local computer 
4. A way to access software and services over the Internet ✅


Q7: Based on the lecture, which of the following is not a typical deployment challenge for Edge computing devices. 
1. Sound proofing ✅
2. Thermal 
3. Power 
4. Waterproofing 


Q8: Based on the lecture, which of the following is NOT an advantage of Cloud Computing? 
1. Management 
2. Resilient 
3. Virtualization 
4. Integration ✅


Q9: Which of the following is TRUE about Fog Computing 
1. Fog computing is a separate architecture that can replace cloud computing 
2. Fog provides low latency ✅
3. Cloud is a centralised system, while the fog is a distributed decentralised infrastructure ✅
4. Fog computing are located nearer to the Cloud computing 


Q10: What is the name of the cloud service model that provides access to software applications over the internet? 
1. Software as a Service (SaaS) ✅
2. Platform as a Service (PaaS) 
3. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) 
4. Function as a Service (FaaS)


Q11: IIoT stands for Industrial IoT.
1. True ✅
2. False 


Q12: Which of the following is a limitation of AIoT? 
1. It requires a high degree of technical expertise to implement 
2. It is only suitable for large-scale applications 
3. It can be expensive to implement 
4. It is limited by the processing power of IoT devices ✅


Q13: AIoT stands for?
1. Artificial Intelligence on IoT ✅
2. Artificial Intelligence of Things 
3. Advanced IoT 
4. Artificial Internet of Things 


Q14: Which if the following is NOT a Cloud Service Model?
1. Infrastructure as a Service 
2. Virtualization as a Service ✅
3. Platform as a Service 
4. Software as a Service 


Q15: What is the purpose of AIoT? 
1. To improve the design of IoT devices 
2. To integrate artificial intelligence with the internet of things ✅
3. To create a secure network for IoT devices 
4. To replace IoT devices with AI-powered devices


Q16: Match the following services to the components that are NOT managed by the cloud operator


ANS: 
  



Q17: Which of the following is a good example of an AIoT application?
1. A wearable device that tracks your steps and calories burned
2. A smart home thermostat that learns your preferences over time✅
3. A wireless security camera that sends alerts to your smartphone
4. A fitness tracker that monitors your heart rate and sleep patterns


Q18: Which of the following statement is FALSE?
1. Type 1 Hypervisor are also known as Bare metal hypervisor.
2. Type 2 Hypervisor use host OS.
3. Type 1 Hypervisor do not use host OS.
4. Type 2 Hypervisor are also known as Bare metal hypervisor.✅
________________


Q19: Which of the following is NOT an advantage of Edge Computing?
1. Faster response time
2. Reduces Network Bandwidth Requirements
3. Significantly reduced data storage requirements  ✅
4. Low investment cost  
________________
Quiz 11 Wireless Mesh
Question : In the context of mesh networks, what does the term 'self-healing' refer to?
Answer: The network's ability to automatically reroute data if a node fails


Question
Which of the following is not a proactive mesh routing algorithm?
Temporally-Ordered Routing Algorithm (ans)
Dynamic Source Routing  (ans)
Ad hoc On-Demand Distance Vector  (ans)


Question
What does Adaptive Flooding adjust based on?
Network conditions and resource availability(ans)


Question
What is a disadvantage of simple flooding in mesh networks?
It generates a large number of redundant messages  (ans)


Question
Which of the following is not a reactive mesh routing algorithm?
Wireless Routing Protocol  (ans)
Better Approach To Mobile Adhoc Networking  (ans)
Destination-Sequenced Distance Vector  (ans)
Optimized Link State Routing  (ans)


Question
Which is not a challenge mentioned for wireless mesh networks?
Bandwidth allocation  (ans)


Question 
What is a disadvantage of simple flooding in mesh networks?
It generates a large number of redundant messages  (ans)


Question
What is the primary feature of a wireless mesh network?
Decentralized architecture  (ans)


Question
The Optimized Link State Routing (OLSR) protocol uses ______ to optimize transmission.
Multipoint relays  (ans)


Question 
In a distributed mesh network, how are routes between nodes established?
Nodes communicate to determine adjacency and routes (ans)




Question
Which characteristic is not a feature of wireless mesh networking?
Centralized architecture (ans)


Question
What does Adaptive Flooding adjust based on?
Network conditions and resource availability (ans)




Question
Optimized Link State Routing Protocol uses triggered updates of their routing table whenever there is a topology change.
False (ans)


Question
What is a typical method to prevent malicious nodes from joining a wireless mesh network?
Authentication (ans)


Question
Dynamic Source Routing have multiple routes per destination:
        True (ans)


Question
Reduced Flooding  (ans)






























________________
HTTP & REST


What does idempotence mean in the context of RESTful APIs? correct
options: 


	The API can handle asynchronous requests✅
	

	The API produces the same result no matter how many times the same request is made
	

	The API produces different results with each request
	

	The API encrypts data for security
	

 
In RESTful APIs, what is the purpose of a payload in a POST request? correct
options:


	To carry control information
	

	To provide additional headers
	

	To contain the data being sent by the client✅
	

	To deliver the client's request to the server
	

In RESTful APIs, what does a status code in the 5xx range signify? correct
options:


	Server error✅
	

	Redirection
	

	Client error
	

	Successful operation
	

What type of architecture does RESTful APIs follow? correct
options:


	Peer-to-peer architecture
	

	Monolithic architecture
	

	Microservices architecture
	

	Client-server architecture✅
	

	Publisher-Subscriber architecture
	

 
What mechanism does RESTful APIs use to indicate the current state of the resource?
options:


	Response body
	

	HTTP status codes✅
	

	HTTP headers
	

	API tokens
	

 
What does REST stand for?
options:


	Real-time State Transfer
	

	Remote Server Transaction
	

	Representational State Transfer✅
	

	Relative State Transmission
	

 What is a resource in the context of RESTful web services?
options:


	A function that performs a specific action
	

	A container for storing data in a web application
	

	A set of procedures for accessing a database
	

	An entity that can be accessed and manipulated through a URI✅
	

 Which of the following HTTP methods is used to retrieve a resource in RESTful architecture?
options:


	PUT
	

	POST
	

	GET✅
	

	DELETE
	

 
What is the primary role of a RESTful API's Uniform Interface constraint?
options:


	To define specific operations like GET and POST
	

	To ensure that the API is stateful
	

	To separate client and server implementations
	

	To standardize the way clients interact with the server✅
	

 What is the HTTP method used to create a new resource in RESTful architecture?
options:


	GET
	

	DELETE
	

	PUT
	

	POST✅
	Which of the following is NOT a constraint of RESTful architecture?
options:


	Cookie-based authentication✅
	

	Statelessness
	

	Client-server architecture
	

	Cacheability
	Which HTTP method should be used to update an existing resource in RESTful web services?
options:


	POST
	

	PUT✅
	

	DELETE
	

	GET
	Which HTTP status code indicates a successful GET request in a RESTful API?
options:


	500 Internal Server Error
	

	400 Bad Request
	

	201 Created
	

	200 OK✅
	In RESTful APIs, what is used to uniquely identify a resource?
options:


	Session ID
	

	API key
	

	Query parameters
	

	URI (Uniform Resource Identifier)✅
	What is the HTTP method used to create a new resource in RESTful architecture?
options:


	PUT
	

	POST✅
	

	DELETE
	

	GET


























































CoAP  & MQTT


	What is the default port number for MQTT?
Question 1 options:


	8883
	

	1833 (should be 1883)✅
	

	8080
	

	80
	CoAP messages can be of which types?
Question 2 options:


	Request and Response
	

	Persistent and Transient
	

	Synchronous and Asynchronous
	

	Confirmable and Non-Confirmable✅
	CoAP supports which of the following methods similar to HTTP?
Question 3 options:


	CONNECT, TRACE, PATCH
	

	OPTIONS, HEAD
	

	None of them
	

	GET, POST, PUT, DELETE✅
	What type of protocol is MQTT?
Question 4 options:


	Application protocol✅
	

	Presentation protocol
	

	Transport protocol
	

	Network protocol
	CoAP provides which of the following requirements? ****
Question 5 options:


	Lower overhead and multicast support
	

	Multicast support and simplicity
	

	Simplicity and low overhead
	

	Multicast support, lower overhead and simplicity✅




	CoAP is a specialised _________ protocol. GOT WRONG 1 MARK
Question 1 options:


	Resource
	

	Power
	

	Web transfer
	

	Application✅
	 
CoAP Protocol is comprised of which sub-layers?
Question 2 options:


	Observation
	

	Message✅
	

	UDP
	

	Request & Response✅


	MQTT uses the publish/subscribe model.
How does the publisher know who is subscribing?
Question 3 options:


	Publisher uses the "Eye of Sauron"
	

	The publisher gets notified when they subscribe.
	

	The publisher doesn't know✅
	

	The subscriber informs the publisher
	

MQTT transmits data to and from a broker in which format. (Choose the best option)
Question 4 options:


	JSON
	

	Text based data
	

	XML
	

	Binary data✅
	

MQTT is _______ oriented.
Question 5 options:


	Data
	

	Network
	

	Message✅
	

	Device
	Which layer is CoAP?
Question 1 options:


	Service layer
	

	Application layer✅
	

	Transport layer
	

	Control layer
	Select the TRUE statement(s) for CoAP protocol?
Question 2 options:


	Uses GET message requests to retrieve subscription. ✅
	

	Uses PUT message requests to create subscription.✅
	

	Uses PUSH message requests to create subscription.
	

	Uses FETCH message requests to retrieve subscription.
	What does MQTT stand for?
Question 3 options:


	Message Queuing Transaction Transport
	

	Message Querying Telecommunication Transmission
	

	Message Queuing Telemetry Transport✅
	

	Message Quorum Transport Technology
	The core of the protocol is specified in ______?
Question 4 options:


	RFC 7252✅
	

	RFC 7452
	

	RFC 7254
	

	RFC 7524?
	What is a topic in MQTT?
Question 5 options:


	A client identifier
	

	A unique identifier for a message
	

	A message payload
	

	A string used to filter messages in a publish/subscribe model correct✅
	CoAP is specialized in? 
Question 1 options:


	Internet applications✅
	

	Wired applications
	

	Device applications
	

	Wireless applications
	The Last Will Message is used to:
Question 2 options:


	Guarantee that the message was delivered
	

	Notify a publisher of a network failure
	

	Gain inheritance 
	

	Notify clients of a failure in the publisher✅
	CoAP is designed for which kind of networks?
Question 3 options:


	 Resource-constrained networks✅
	

	Datacenter Networks
	

	Local Area Networks (LAN)
	

	Wide Area Networks (WAN)
	Which of the following QoS levels in MQTT ensures message delivery at least once?
Question 4 options:


	QoS 2
	

	None of them.
	

	QoS 1✅
	

	QoS 0
	Which of the following is not a client type in MQTT?
Question 5 options:


	Broker
	

	Subscriber
	

	Producer✅
	

	Publisher
	What is the maximum number of clients that can subscribe to a single topic in MQTT?
Question 1 options:


	100
	

	Unlimited✅
	

	1
	

	10
	Which of the following is not a characteristic of MQTT?
Question 2 options:


	Request/response messaging model✅
	

	Quality of Service (QoS)
	

	Low overhead
	

	Publish/subscribe messaging model
	

To receive a retained message?
Question 3 options:


	You must keep the message.
	

	You must subscribe with the retained message set.
	

	You must subscribe with a QOS of 1 or 2
	

	You must subscribe to a topic that has been published with the retained Cmessage set.✅
	 
What does CoAP stand for?
Question 4 options:


	Common Application Protocol
	

	Compact Application Protocol
	

	Constrained Application Protocol✅
	

	Control Application Protocol
	 Which protocol is CoAP closely modeled after?
Question 5 options:


	AMQP
	

	HTTP✅
	

	MQTT
	

	FTP
	What transport layer protocol does CoAP use?
Question 1 options:


	TCP
	

	ICMP
	

	UDP✅
	

	REST
	 
 
________________


802.15 & Thread


Question 1 (1 point)
IEEE 802.15.4 defines the operation of which network layers?
Data Link Layer✅
Transport Layer
Physical (PHY)✅
Session Layer
Application Layer
Network Layer


Question 2 (1 point)
 
Assume that a user wants to transmit bit 0 using Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum. The user using "XOR" to generate the same. What is the transmitted signal (in binary) if the chipping sequence is 011011000101?
In Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum (DSSS), the transmitted signal is obtained by performing a bitwise XOR operation between the original data bit and the chipping sequence.


Given:
Data bit to transmit: 0
Chipping sequence: 011011000101


XOR Operation:
If the data bit is 0, XORing with any bit leaves the bit unchanged.
If the data bit is 1, XORing with any bit inverts the bit.
Since the data bit is 0, the transmitted signal remains the same as the chipping sequence:


Answer:
011011000101
________________
Question 3 (1 point)
If the 16-bit address assigned to a device in a 6LowPAN network is 4EA1, what is the IPv6 link local address? Assume the PAN ID is 5678.


	FE80:5678::4EA1
	

	FE80::5678:4EA1✅
	

	FE80::4EA1
	

	FE80:5678:4EA1::0


	Question 4 (1 point)
 
6LowPAN is the same as IEEE802.15.4


	True
	

	False✅


	________________


Question 5 (1 point)
 
Assume Bob is using DSSS to transmit his data to Alice. Bob decided to use the chipping sequence 101101 to transmit his bits. If the length of the packet is 100 bits, how many bit will Bob actually transmit?
Given Data:
* Chipping sequence length = 6 bits (101101)

* Packet length = 100 bits (original data bits)

* Each bit in the packet is expanded by the length of the chipping sequence.

Total Transmitted Bits Calculation:
Total transmitted bits=Original data bits×Chipping sequence length\text{Total transmitted bits} = \text{Original data bits} \times \text{Chipping sequence length}Total transmitted bits=Original data bits×Chipping sequence length =100×6= 100 \times 6=100×6 =600 bits= 600 \text{ bits}=600 bits
Final Answer:
✅ 600 bits
________________


Question 6 (1 point)
If the EUI64 address of a device is 62::1, what would be its link local IPv6 address. Assume 6LowPAN protocol.




	FE80:0:0:0:60::1
	

	FE80:0:0:0:22::1
	

	FE80:0:0:0:66::1
	

	None of answer mentioned
	

	FE80:0:0:0:62::1✅
	Question 7 (1 point)
 
6LowPAN technology sits on top of ...
Question 2 options:


	IEEE 802.15.16
	

	IEEE 802.15.4✅
	

	IEEE 802.15.11
	

	Anything within IEEE 802
	Question 8 (1 point)
 
Which of the following frames are required to be transmitted using CSMA/CA?
Question 3 options:


	Beacons✅
	

	All the mentioned frames
	

	Acknowledgements
	

	Data Frames✅
	Question 9(1 point)
 
Which of the following is not a characteristic of Thread?
Question 4 options:


	Thread can support large networks.
	

	All the options are characteristics of Thread.✅
	

	The range of the network is more than enough to cover a home.
	

	Devices can easily join the network.
	

	There is no single point of failure.
	Question 10(1 point)
 
What does IEEE 802.15.4 primarily focus on?
Question 5 options:


	Long-range wireless communication
	

	Low-rate wireless personal area networks✅
	

	High-bandwidth local area networking
	

	High-speed internet connectivity
	Question 11 (1 point)
 
Which of the following is NOT true about Border Routers in a Thread Network?
Question 1 options:


	A REED can be configured as a Border Router in the Thread Network.✅
	

	There cannot be more than 3 border routers in a Thread Network.
	

	Border Router provide services to devices within the Thread Network only.
	

	Border Router can provide connectivity from Thread Network to 802.11 networks.
	Question 12 (1 point)
 
 Saved
Which of the following are used by IEEE 802.15.4?
Question 2 options:


	Frequency Hopping Spread Spectrum
	

	Direct Sequence Spread Spectrum✅
	

	CSMA with Collision Avoidance✅
	

	CSMA with Collision Detection
	Question 13 (1 point)
 
 Saved
Which of the following is true about Thread Network?
Question 3 options:


	IPV6 ULA address is used for mesh establishment and link maintenance.
	

	Every Thread device is assigned only one Mesh local address.
	

	Thread enables full mesh connectivity between all the devices in the network.✅
	

	A thread network can employ more 10 routers in the network.
	

	None of the Above
	Question 14 (1 point)
 
 Saved
The full form of 6LoWPAN is ...
Question 4 options:


	6 Low Power Wide Personal Area Network
	

	IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Networks✅
	

	6 Low Power Wireless Personal Area Network
	

	IPv6 over Low-Power Wide Area Networks
	Question 15 (1 point)
 
 Saved
Which of the following are not true about 6LowPAN?
Question 5 options:


	6LoWPAN is a networking layer protocol for Internet of Things
	

	None of the statements are false.
	

	6LoWPAN is based on IPv4 and IPv6 protocols for transmitting packets✅
	

	



Question 16 (1 point)
IEEE 802.15.4 is a basis for which popular IoT communication protocol?


	Thread✅
	

	LTE
	

	Bluetooth
	

	ZigBee✅
	

	WiFi
	Question 17 (1 point)
 
6LowPAN uses traditional IPv6 as its networking layer.
Question 2 options:


	True✅
	

	False
	Question 18 (1 point)


	Consider an IEEE 802.15.4 network using Beacon-enabled CSMA/CA. Given this, choose which of the following statements are false:
Question 4 options:


	Contention Free Period is reserved for real-time services.
	

	A part of the beacon interval is busy as coordinator requires it to send out MAC command packets.
	

	Contention Free Period uses slotted CSMA.
	

	Devices can sleep during the inactive interval of the beacon interval.
	

	Contention Access Period is reserved for real-time services.
	

	Contention Access Period uses slotted CSMA.
	Question 19 (1 point)
 
If the 16-bit address assigned to a device in a 6LowPAN network is 4EA1, what is the IPv6 link local address?
Question 5 options:


	PAN ID is unknown.
	

	FE80:4EA1::0
	

	FE80::1111:4EA1
	

	FE80::4EA1✅